# Project Thanks

This is where we would like to acknowledge all those who have contributed their time, passion and effort to the NuPattern project, bought it to where it is today, and made it a resounding success. 

There have been many people over the years to thank, many ideas and inputs both large and small that have all gone a long way to make the project flourish. And we expect more to come.

We are going to start this off chronologically with the projects inception, and move forward in the project's history. You can learn a little more about the history of the project in the [Project History](Project-History) page.

It all starts at the beginning with some notable achievements.
The project would never have been conceived if it was not for the inception of a 'Software Factories' initiative at Raytheon Integrated Defense Systems in Massachusetts. The initial team that conceived that initiative were: **Dave Mosher** and **John Slaby** from Raytheon and **Mike Cramer** from Microsoft, who positioned, marketed and lobbied two massive bureaucracies with a concept, to seek executive support and funding for a new game-changing program that would bring an advanced software engineering capability to Raytheon. It took over 3 years to get the corporate funding to commence the project, and with the skill of luminary **Jack Greenfield** led to the inception of a new program at Raytheon with Microsoft's help, that led on to the delivery of a tooling platform that is now known as NuPattern.

That was just the start and backdrop for it though. Having a concept and project is one huge deal, but delivering on it is quite a different thing. You can imagine there were many executive eyes on it at the start from both Microsoft and Raytheon.
For that, NuPattern owes its deepest gratitude to luminary **John Slaby**, **Jezz Santos**, and the entire joint **ASPEN team** that created the program and development centre at Raytheon in Sudbury, MA. There were many enablers involved from both Microsoft and Raytheon sides in this inception. The passion, support, enthusiasm and dedication of: **Pete DeRosa**, **Mark Romano**, **Terri Potts**, **Steve Brown**, **Gary Palmer**, **Mike Cramer**, **Karl Gardner**, **Anthony Yott**, **John Waltzer**, **Ross McKenrick**, **Steve Petrovcin**, **Brooke Hamilton**, **Phillip Hardbeck**, **Anthony Yott**, **Ian Goodsell**, **Lenny Fenster**, **Melissa Palermo**, **Nancy Kang**, **Fred Pabon**, **Greg Moncrief**, and **Graham Fitter**. They were the joint ASPEN team that did the hard yards in learning the hard way how a hyper-productive engineering organization needs to be building and integrating: domain specific tooling and model-driven development, into software engineering projects. 

That experience then fed a demand for the creation of a new tooling platform and experience destined for other organizations to benefit from. With that demand in place, the Visual Studio Architecture Team: **Cameron Skinner**, **Jack Greenfield**, **David Trowbridge**, **Michael Lehman**, **Christof Sprenger**, **Daniel Cazzulino**, **Mariano Rodriguez**, who are to thank for building the guidance workflow platform (‘[Feature Builder Power Tool](http://visualstudiogallery.msdn.microsoft.com/67b720f4-9a50-41cb-86a2-82e33b7c5fc4)’) upon which NuPattern built a foundation.  

Shortly after that, the ‘PLATU’ project was conceived, outlined, envisioned, and funded by Microsoft Consulting Services. Envisioned by the Aspen leadership team, **John Slaby** and **Jezz Santos**, the project was developed with the Clarius Consulting team: **Daniel Cazzulino**, **Pablo Galiano**, **Mariano Rodriguez**, **Joaquin Jares**, **Julian Domingo**, with design input from **Antonio Aprea Garcia**. By taking the input from the ASPEN team, and frequently delivering the evolving tooling platform, a new developer centric feature set was discovered and implemented – called 'VSPAT'.
After a period of incubation and infusion at Raytheon, the VSPAT project turned externally to apply to other development organizations. **Jezz Santos** and **Daniel Cazzulino** supported and maintained the project during that period. **Daniel Cazzulino** introduced it into the ‘Microsoft Amalga’ product set, and **Lenny Fenster** and **Jezz Santos** grew adoption of VSPAT within the solution offerings from Microsoft Services. After limited success within Microsoft, and with the project being in danger of languishing constrained within the company walls, **Jezz Santos** productized it, and released '[VSPAT](http://visualstudiogallery.msdn.microsoft.com/332f060b-2352-41c9-b8dc-95d8ad21329b)' to the wider development community on the Visual Studio Gallery. With the help of **Don Smith** and **Bob Brumfield** at the Microsoft patterns & practices team, the project was open sourced and moved to CodePlex, then to The Outercurve Foundation, as a community owned open source project.

We have **Brooke Hamilton**, and the **Visual Studio Ultimate** team for contributing the foundational pieces of the ‘Feature Builder Power Tool’ platform to the project, which allowed NuPattern to integrate with Visual Studio 2012, and future Visual Studio versions.

We also want to recognize the many earlier followers of the project, and especially thank them for their patience in the difficult period waiting for a Visual Studio 2012 release.

As the project grows we are hoping to get the chance to recognize many more contributions to the project as it continues to grow.